[Music]
twenty-five strange phobias you may not
know you have when was the last time you
felt terrified maybe you were walking in
the dark and heard a strange noise right
behind you or lightning and thunder were
raging all night or you were on that
airplane ride and the weather was pretty
rough we all fear something our hearts
start beating like crazy we sweat and
tremble run out of breath and sometimes
even have a full-blown panic attack it
thumbs up if you're afraid of something
it's okay to admit it while most
people's fears are easy to explain and
they can avoid scary situations by
turning on the light or avoiding
Unleashed dogs some fears are something
different life is much more challenging
when you are afraid of buttons or
falling in love here's a list of 25
bizarre and unique phobias you won't
believe exist
number 25 octavo phobia acrophobia is
the fear of not being able to understand
what you're reading at the moment the
name of this phobia is built from two
greek words a kuriboh
which means know for sure and Phobos
fear sometimes it can even be a sign of
schizophrenia when patients complained
that the phrase breaks up into words and
individual syllables like many other
fears we'll talk about today this one is
most definitely rooted in childhood
memories maybe a person was often
laughed at for being a slow learner many
of us will agree it is hard to
understand a geometry textbook though
number 24 hexa cozy hexa Khanda hexa
phobia those who fear number 666 the
number of the beast have hexaco see hexa
Kunda hexa phobia where does this name
come from ancient Greek words hexaco
c600 hexa Conda 60 and
see six were put together with phobia to
build it if you've seen the honking
episode of Futurama you have an idea of
what it looks like
bender was afraid of the symbols 0 1 0 1
1 0 0 1 0 1 which stands for 666 in the
binary system reflected in the mirror
many people prefer to avoid having 666
in their address Ronald Reagan and his
wife Nancy for example had their house
number changed to 6 6 8 from 666 when
they moved to Bel Air Los Angeles some
people blocked channel 666 from their
cable TV list others will drive around
the neighborhood just to change the
odometer number from 666 to 667 where
does this fear come from many people
believe everything happens for a reason
they find connections between
coincidental events maybe they rang a
phone number ending in 666 and broke
their leg the same day this fear might
also be genetic
number 23
hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia this
phobia is so hard to pronounce it speaks
for itself
hippopotomonstrosesquipedaliophobia is
the fear of long words people who suffer
from it most definitely failed in a
spelling bee competition as kids or
maybe something else not so terrible
happened to them let's try to make this
word a bit less scary by breaking it
down in parts hippo means horse in Greek
and Potamus means river so the first
part translates as water horse also
known as hippopotamus in the oxford
dictionary a similar word hippopotamus
is used to refer to something very large
the word monstre has Latin origin and
means something that is huge or
terrifying sesquipedalian is also
derived from Latin and means measuring a
foot and a half long phobia is the easy
part
we know it means fear if you watched
Mary Poppins you probably had fun trying
to repeat
supercalifragilisticexpialidocious a
word that has 30
four letters in it well it must have
been a scary experience for those who
fear any word longer than beautiful what
would probably be a nightmare vacation
for such people is a trip to this place
you can try to pronounce it
we failed somewhere between Rajasthani
and odo
this place in Thailand has a hundred and
sixty-three letters in its name number
twenty-two no so phobia no so phobia is
the fear of knowledge gnosis means
knowledge in Greek it is also known as
epistemic obeah knowledge is power and
some people are afraid of being too
powerful they will most likely avoid
visiting a library reading books at home
watching TV or learning new things from
the internet why well in many cases they
are afraid to find out about a certain
disease they might have from a medical
book they also feel scared they won't be
able to spread the word if they read
about something dangerous
70% of agnosia phobes live in large
cities this phobia is also typical for
feral kids who grew up outside of human
society number 21 hydrophobia Hydra so
phobia is a fear of sweating and
catching a cold or a fear of becoming a
source of unpleasant odour the word
consists of two parts of Greek origin
hydro so means I sweat and phobia stands
for fear in some extreme cases
hydrophobes also fear other people's
sweat those who have this phobia
probably envy the birds rabbits and pigs
why because they don't sweat number 20
dextra phobia dextra phobia is the fear
of objects on the right side of the body
the word dextro in its name is of latin
origin and means to the right the reason
for this fear is obsessive-compulsive
personality have you ever met people who
are obsessed with order at their office
desk and keep all their stuff strictly
to their left in that case you have met
a dextra phobe people with dextra phobia
also find it hard to move into the left
lane when driving if they see a vehicle
on the right side they are often
laughter because of their unusual habits
which causes social anxiety in them
number 19 Doro phobia the holiday season
must be a real nightmare for those who
experience dural phobia this term is
used to define the fear of receiving or
making gifts the Greek word for gifts is
thought owed so this is where the name
of this phobia comes from the roots of
this phobia are again in childhood
memories some families can afford
expensive gifts others can't it leads to
conflicts complexes and reproaches some
dora phobes still can't beat those early
memories of being mocked and would
rather avoid gifts as adults number 18
come boo no phobia people who have come
pune phobia try to avoid clothes with
buttons for them even the thought
mentioned or sight of buttons can cause
an anxiety attack the word come boo no
phobia is of Greek origin kubu no means
beans as the ancient Greeks used beans
instead of buttons
nearly one in 75,000 people have this
phobia it was well shown in Neil
Gaiman's horror novel Coraline which was
adapted into a movie
the lead character developed communal
phobia in a parallel world where evil
characters looking like her parents had
black buttons instead of eyes yikes
sub kids in real life may have choked on
buttons or were abused by someone
wearing clothes with buttons they grow
up into adults who have to avoid
weddings or proms just not to see all
those people in tuxedos and coats with
buttons in very extreme cases come to
know folks are even afraid of writing
down the word buttons number 17
lacunae phobia lakyn a phobia is the
fear of vegetables the name comes from
Greek la Hanako meaning vegetables
people who suffer from it cannot stand
the sight or smell of vegetables next
time you force your kids to eat broccoli
remember you can be the reason they
develop a phobia it can also happen if
they see caterpillars or worms
vegetables kids have a rich imagination
and some imagine they can turn into a
caterpillar themselves if they eat the
affected vegetable number sixteen nephal
phobia instagram with all its hashtag no
filter sky pictures is a scary place for
those who have nephal phobia it is the
fear of NEFAs clouds in greek both in
real life and in photos over time it can
take other forms and transform into fear
of fog or even air imagine how hard it
is for these people to fly or simply go
out of the house this phobia is often a
result of traumatic events of the past
or genetics number 15 home full of
phobia home full of phobia is the fear
of bellybuttons the name is built of
greek words on fellow meaning navel and
phobia you must be wondering what is
wrong with bellybuttons it might look
like a knot in a balloon but why fear
them well a bellybutton is often
associated with a navel string and the
mother's womb some people falsely
believe that playing with their
bellybutton and accidentally tapping it
can kill you
people with this fear try not to touch
their bellybutton when taking a bath
some of them even cover it or put a
plaster on it for protection and they
avoid going to the beach just imagine
all those belly buttons in one place
number 14 Umbra phobia rain might seem
like a good meditation tool for many
people but not to those who have on bro
phobia yes it is the fear of rain which
is ambrose in greek people who suffer
from it never miss a weather report even
the thought of rain or a mention of it
in the forecast makes them anxious when
the first raindrops fall they get a
panic attack and seek shelter you can
say it as a normal human reaction but
not everyone is terrified out of their
mind at the sight and sound of rain it
probably does not make your heart beat
fast and your whole body tremble this
fear most often comes from childhood
traumatic events of that time or being
told by parents that rain would get you
sick can be
the reason of Omri phobia number 13
Panthera phobia
Panthera phobia is the fear of
mother-in-law the Panthera part of this
phobias name does not stand for panther
it means mother-in-law the tensions
between a man and his mother-in-law
might be a popular subject of jokes but
Panthera phobia is no joke for those who
experience it related phobias are
victory so phobia fear of your
stepfather no versa phobia fear of your
stepmother and so Cyril phobia fear of
your parents-in-law if your husband
seems to be very afraid of your mother
don't blame him this fear is most
definitely genetic or comes from seeing
someone experience it on TV or in movies
number 12
Pagano phobia Pagano phobia is the fear
of beards
Boggan means beard in greek and fo voz
is fear as we know has your mother ever
told you to never trust a man with the
beard or facial hair unless he is Santa
Claus in fact most fairy tale villains
have beards take blue beard for example
it is one of the reasons kids who were
scared of them grow into Pogan of Fobus
adults Newsnight presenter Jeremy Paxman
even accused the BBC of being Pagano
phobic when they wanted him to shave off
his beard number 11 Papa the phobia Papa
the phobia is the fear of the Pope or
Papa in ancient Greek as it stands in
the name it is quite a rare phenomenon
closely related to hero phobia fear of
priests or holy things while many people
dream of seeing the Pope st. Peter's
Square in the Vatican is a place to
avoid for all Papa the phobes number 10
trypophobia trypophobia is the fear of
cluster of holes the name consists of
greek Tripa meaning hole and Phobos
meaning fear honeycombs barnacles corals
freshly bloomed lotus pods make
thousands of people who suffer from this
phobia freak out they see danger in all
those little holes trypophobia plays a
key part in
American Horror Story cult Laius season
the main character Allie Mayfair
Richards is scared of some holes in her
souffle and a quarrel in her therapists
office she feels like they are staring
at her number nine
zero phobia hero phobia from Greek hero
meaning to be pleased and joyful is the
fear of laughing in an appropriate
environment for example at a funeral
that can happen when your body is trying
to protect you by a manifestation of joy
in a shocking situation you might get
this phobia if you were often told
laughing in a similar situation is a
terrible thing to do or punished for it
as a kid number eight Crona phobia Crona
phobia is the fear of time which is
Chronos in Greek it's the name people
who suffer from it cannot enjoy life to
the fullest as they are focused on the
flow of time we all know we cannot stop
it or go back but some of us find this
idea unbearable older people and
prisoners tend to suffer from chronic
obeah more often they view time
differently but it is tragical for both
the most famous of all chrono phobic
stories is Rip Van Winkle he once took a
nap and woke up 20 years later when all
his friends and family were dead he
overcame Crona phobia as he made new
friends and regained old memories maybe
that can work in real life too
number 7 Fela phobia Fela phobia
originates from Greek filos loving of
beloved and foe voz for fear people with
filler phobia avoid falling in love or
having a relationship when they feel
like they were exposed to love they try
to run away as fast as they can
they also avoid watching romantic movies
attending weddings and going to places
where lovebirds usually gather a life
without love must be really torturing
number 6 deep no phobia dining out with
friends is something most of us look
forward to those who have deep no phobia
don't it is the fear of dinner parties
the word deep no phobia was built out
from Greek deep No
or dinner and Phobos for fear a
disastrous business dinner a terrible
setup or blind date or being forced to
have dinner with intolerable annoying
people around all these events from the
past might lead to death no phobia the
Internet has given birth to a whole
bunch of previously unknown phobias
related to gadgets and social networks
can you guess any of them click thumbs
up if you think you have an idea of what
we're talking about
number five punctum o phobia which has
latin punctum meaning point in its name
is a fear of getting a message with a
dot at the end the absence of a smiley
at the end of the line means that the
conversation is too serious or that the
other party answered too sharply number
4 red arrow phobia is the fear of making
a mistake in a word or not noticing an
autocorrect it comes from the Latin word
red arrow meaning cross reference you
have to double check what you wrote
several times by the way you can't turn
off autocorrect to make your life a
little easier number three emoji phobia
is a fear of being misunderstood using
emoticons or stickers the person in this
case is frightened of the fact that the
cat or a winking face he sent was seen
as something frivolous number two selfie
phobia is the fear of bad selfies a
person can go nuts trying to take a
perfect shot of themselves in fact it
can lead to sad consequences and
accidents since people who take selfies
don't notice any danger around them
number one ignore oviya is a fear that
the message was viewed but not responded
to it is now in to many of us we think
we did something wrong if the person we
messaged says nothing back is there a
way to get over any of these phobias
popular treatment methods are all kinds
of therapy controlled breathing and
visualization remember it is much easier
to handle any concern if you fully
understand why and what exactly concerns
you most of all if you like this video
and want to know more about strange
phobias give us
thumbs up we are going to make another
video if this one gets 50,000 likes
subscribe to our channel to join us on
the bright side